[Music]
hey can we speak plainly
okay the fastest commercial flight ever
was in February 2019 when an airplane
flew at the speed of 801 miles per hour
and that was only thanks to the
direction it was heading at ease and the
passengers there also rapidly lost
weight
what the airplane diet is that a thing
all in due time though here are some
mind-blowing facts about airplanes first
things first
according to different sources only 5 to
20 % of the world's population have ever
traveled by airplane but all of them
have done it more than once if you're
afraid of flying you must have wondered
why planes don't have parachutes onboard
two reasons money and common sense first
parachutes are heavy and adding 300
something of them to the weight of the
plane would reduce the allowed number of
passengers or their baggage and secondly
even if you have a parachute you simply
won't be able to open the airplanes door
to jump out the difference in pressure
is too much but there's good news too
some data suggests that sitting in the
back of the plane is safer than anywhere
else if you're in the tail here are
about 40% more likely to survive in a
plane crash so stick to the back the
only reason you might regret it is if
one of your neighbors in the row is sick
not airsick although that's unfortunate
- I mean runny nose profit that kind of
stuff researchers say such a passenger
has an 80% chance of infecting everyone
around them with whatever they have to
minimize that risk turn on the little
air vent above your head and direct its
flow on yourself it will work as an air
shield flowing away the germs and not
letting them cling to you hey wouldn't
it be great if you could buy a cheap
little hazmat suit from the flight
attendant during the trip oh but then
you have to crawl into the thing while
in that cramped little seat as your seat
mates wonder which one of them you're
dissing hmm guess not huh but don't be
in a rush to blame your coughing
neighbor if you get sick after the
flight
ask yourself first did you take the
blanket from the flight attendant if so
you might have caught germs from that
airplane crew members say they only wash
blankets once every few days and the
rest of the time they only get folded
and reused
who knows who used yours before you and
for what yuck unlike the cabin doors the
bathroom actually can be open from the
outside
there's a hidden latch that allows
flight attendants to unlock the door in
case of emergency for example to rescue
a passenger who fainted inside no they
don't do it for fun ever heard that
banging noise when coming on or exiting
the plane now it's not the ground crew
hurriedly repairing the plane it's just
the baggage being loaded or unloaded
workers don't really throw it around
either but they usually have very little
time to be too gentle if you fly say
from New York to London and not the
other way around
consider yourself lucky you'll probably
be there a couple hours early and that's
true for many planes flying East nature
itself helps them there are jet streams
high up that if used correctly give a
hefty speed boost to aircraft jet
streams are basically constant
high-speed streams of air that carry you
eastward on their gentle wings then you
arrive early and there's no gate for you
yet so your plane sits on the tarmac
waiting you also might want to step on
the scales while traveling with the jet
stream because they'll probably show a
rather pleasing number thanks to the EO
votes effect perceive force of gravity
is less when you're moving east which
means you weigh a tiny bit less - the
bad news is as soon as the plane lands
and stops the pounds will come back
thanks to international airspace
agreements planes flying from the u.s.
to far and Middle East travel over the
North Pole and you can see it's stunning
icy landscapes pretty close that's
because airplane fuel freezes at
temperatures below 50 degrees Fahrenheit
and the aircraft needs to
much lower than its cruising altitude
for warmer air make sure to get a window
seat another sightseeing tour happens
when your plane suddenly decides to not
land straight away but make a circle
around the airport this can occur when
there's something on the runway or the
wind is too strong or there's just a
heavy traffic down below yeah airplanes
also have traffic jams
so look outside and enjoy the panorama
that is if there is a window near your
row originally planes were designed to
have seat rows aligned with the windows
but to squeeze more people inside the
cabin and make tickets cheaper most
airlines decrease the gap between the
rows in the economy class so your window
seat should be more properly called a
wall seat now if you want to complain
about that you can come up to the pilot
yourself just make sure you know the
code from the cockpit door in fact no
one can enter the cockpit without the
pilots say so even if you have the code
the door will only open after about half
a minute and that's if the pilots don't
react they can deny entrance by simply
pressing a button but let's imagine
you've somehow gotten inside the cockpit
and the pilots are not there oh oh can a
regular person land a plane in such a
situation like they show in the movies
sorry
highly unlikely still if the plane is
modern all its systems are intact and
there's at least one flight attendant
onboard they might be able to land the
aircraft following the instructions from
air traffic control wait a second
there's an autopilot in there can it
land the plane by itself no good there
either even more the autopilot doesn't
even fly the plane proper it's basically
just a super advanced GPS that's only
taken into account the plane's route and
surroundings it can keep the Machine in
the air but any complex action is a
human pilots responsibility
that's why autopilot can only take
control at the cruising altitude which
is usually around 36,000 feet the planes
have to fly so high to reduce air
resistance
it causes drag and reduces efficiency of
the engines it shouldn't climb too
because it will eventually lose lift and
drop down as they say speaking about
control the pilot is actually in charge
of everything during the flight their
level of responsibility is enormous so
they're both law and it's enforcers on
board they even have handcuffs to tame
unruly passengers so behave well yeah so
that you understand what kind of
responsibility is in the pilots hands a
Boeing 747 airplane consists of numerous
parts like about 6 million of them
just imagine navigating this kind of
complex machinery with just a couple of
buttons and levers
no wonder pilot has to go through
rigorous and lengthy training before
being allowed in the cockpit even their
oxygen masks are different from those in
the cabin well a regular passenger mask
only has enough oxygen for 12 to 15
minutes the one in the cockpit is
designed to last much longer that's
because of that same huge responsibility
pilots have to stay awake and focus to
save all those lives on board at all
costs and if you think smaller private
planes are safer than big commercial
ones that's a myth according to
statistics passenger airplanes are more
than twice safer than private ones
exactly because of the amount of rules
and regulations imposed on them pilots
follow strict schedules and are trained
professionals while private planes are
often flown by amateurs on the topic of
amateurs some believe that hard landing
on water should be safer than on the
ground but that's not true either pilots
even say that they try to avoid landing
on the water is called ditching by all
means because of its structure water is
actually harder than soft ground at the
moment of impact and when the plane
Falls it'll probably be filled with
water very soon the crew has to act
really quickly to get everyone to safety
after such a crash landing and crash
landings are exactly the reason why you
have to stow your tray table and get
your seat in the upright position in
case of a hard impact
open train a eager you and if your seat
is reclined your head will travel a
longer distance to the seat in front of
you increasing the risk of head trauma
it's for your own safety pal but at
least you'll enjoy the pleasant blue
color of that seat it's made so to calm
you down psychologists say the color
blue helps you relax if the seats were
red for example it could have gotten on
your nerves and made those who are
afraid of flying even more jittery who
and finally the most important question
what are those mysterious numbers on
your boarding pass your name gate and
flight number ok that's clear there's a
six-letter passenger name reference or
record locator that's randomly generated
for you personally and gives access to
your passenger data to authorities and
then there's a standalone letter
depicting your Class A or F for first
wife or economy and Q for economy
discounted flight hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life bright side
[Music]